<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="t_differentiating_input_and_output_formats">
    <title>Input and output formats</title>
    <shortdesc>In an information system, input is the raw data that is processed to produce
        output.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_arp_sxx_qpb">
            <title>The most frequently used formats</title>
            <tgroup cols="2" align="center">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1" colwidth="309.6pt"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1" colwidth="309.6pt"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Input formats</entry>
                        <entry>Output formats</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Microsoft Word</entry>
                        <entry>PDF</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>LaTex</entry>
                        <entry>HTML5, WebHelp</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>HTML</entry>
                        <entry>Help (.chm - Windows)</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>XML (Adobe Frame maker, DITA, MadCap Flare)</entry>
                        <entry>Tooltip</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>JSON (API)</entry>
                        <entry>Wiki</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Doxygen</entry>
                        <entry>Excel</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Javadoc, Pydoc</entry>
                        <entry>Graphical tools</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Markdown</entry>
                        <entry>CAT tools</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <section id="section_ckr_z41_ppb">
            <title>Input formats</title>
            <ol id="ol_eqf_kp1_ppb">
                <li>
                    <p><b>Microsoft Word</b></p>
                    <p>Microsoft Word or MS Word (often called Word) is a graphical word processing
                        program that users can type with. It is made by the computer company
                        Microsoft. Its purpose is to allow users to type and save documents.</p>
                    <p>Similar to other word processors, it has helpful tools to make documents.</p>
                    <p>
                        <ul id="ul_wfk_rp1_ppb">
                            <li>Spelling and grammar checker, word count (this also counts letters
                                and lines)</li>
                            <li>Speech recognitionInserts pictures in documents</li>
                            <li>Choice of typefaces</li>
                            <li>Special codesWeb pages, graphs, etc.</li>
                            <li>Tables</li>
                            <li>Displays synonyms of words and can read out the text</li>
                            <li>Prints in different ways</li>
                        </ul>
                    </p>
                    <p>Microsoft Word is a part of Microsoft Office, but can also be bought
                        separately.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>LaTex</b></p>
                    <p>LaTeX is a software system for document preparation. When writing, the writer
                        uses plain text as opposed to the formatted text found in “What You See Is
                        What You Get” word processors like Microsoft Word, LibreOffice Writer and
                        Apple Pages. The writer uses markup tagging conventions to define the
                        general structure of a document (such as article, book, and letter), to
                        stylise text throughout a document (such as bold and italics), and to add
                        citations and cross-references. A TeX distribution such as TeX Live or
                        MiKTeX is used to produce an output file (such as PDF or DVI) suitable for
                        printing or digital distribution.</p>
                    <p>LaTeX is widely used in academia for the communication and publication of
                        scientific documents in many fields, including mathematics, statistics,
                        computer science, engineering, physics, economics, linguistics, quantitative
                        psychology, philosophy, and political science.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>HTML</b></p>
                    <p>HTML stands for “Hypertext Markup Language.” HTML is the language used to
                        create webpages. “Hypertext” refers to the hyperlinks that an HTML page may
                        contain. “Markup language” refers to the way tags are used to define the
                        page layout and elements within the page.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>XML (Adobe Frame maker, DITA, MadCap Flare)</b></p>
                    <p>Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a markup language that defines a set of
                        rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and
                        machine-readable.</p>
                    <p>The design goals of XML emphasize simplicity, generality, and usability
                        across the Internet. It is a textual data format with strong support via
                        Unicode for different human languages. Although the design of XML focuses on
                        documents, the language is widely used for the representation of arbitrary
                        data structures such as those used in web services.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>JSON (API)</b></p>
                    <p>JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is an open standard file format and data
                        interchange format that uses human-readable text to store and transmit data
                        objects consisting of attribute–value pairs and arrays (or other
                        serializable values). It is a very common data format, with a diverse range
                        of applications, one example being web applications that communicate with a
                        server.</p>
                    <p>JSON is a language-independent data format. It was derived from JavaScript,
                        but many modern programming languages include code to generate and parse
                        JSON-format data.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Doxygen, Javadoc, Pydoc</b></p>
                    <p><i>Doxygen</i> is a documentation generator and static analysis tool for
                        software source trees. When used as a documentation generator, Doxygen
                        extracts information from specially-formatted comments within the code. When
                        used for analysis, Doxygen uses its parse tree to generate diagrams and
                        charts of the code structure. Doxygen can cross reference documentation and
                        code, so that the reader of a document can easily refer to the actual
                        code.</p>
                    <p><i>Javadoc</i> is a documentation generator created by Sun Microsystems for
                        the Java language (now owned by Oracle Corporation) for generating API
                        documentation in HTML format from Java source code. The HTML format is used
                        for adding the convenience of being able to hyperlink related documents
                        together.</p>
                    <p><i>Pydoc</i> is the standard documentation module for the programming
                        language Python. Similar to the functionality of Perldoc within Perl and
                        Javadoc within Java, Pydoc allows Python programmers to access Python’s
                        documentation help files, generate text and HTML pages with documentation
                        specifics, and find the appropriate module for a particular job.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Markdown</b></p>
                    <p>Markdown is a lightweight markup language for creating formatted text using a
                        plain-text editor. John Gruber and Aaron Swartz created Markdown in 2004 as
                        a markup language that is appealing to human readers in its source code
                        form. Markdown is widely used in blogging, instant messaging, online forums,
                        collaborative software, documentation pages, and readme files.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_tr2_fp1_ppb">
            <title>Output formats</title>
            <ol id="ol_drk_cr1_ppb">
                <li>
                    <p><b>PDF</b></p>
                    <p>Portable Document Format (PDF), standardized as ISO 32000, is a file format
                        developed by Adobe in 1993 to present documents, including text formatting
                        and images, in a manner independent of application software, hardware, and
                        operating systems. Based on the PostScript language, each PDF file
                        encapsulates a complete description of a fixed-layout flat document,
                        including the text, fonts, vector graphics, raster images and other
                        information needed to display it.</p>
                    <p>PDF files may contain a variety of content besides flat text and graphics
                        including logical structuring elements, interactive elements such as
                        annotations and form-fields, layers, rich media (including video content),
                        and three-dimensional objects using U3D or PRC, and various other data
                        formats. The PDF specification also provides for encryption and digital
                        signatures, file attachments, and metadata to enable workflows requiring
                        these features.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>HTML5, WebHelp</b></p>
                    <p>Webhelp is a chunked HTML output format in the DocBook xslt stylesheets that
                        was introduced in version 1.76.1. The documentation for web help also
                        provides an example of web help and is part of the DocBook xsl
                        distribution.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Help (.chm - Windows)</b></p>
                    <p>Microsoft Compiled HTML Help is a Microsoft proprietary online help format,
                        consisting of a collection of HTML pages, an index and other navigation
                        tools. The files are compressed and deployed in a binary format with the
                        extension.CHM, for Compiled HTML. The format is often used for software
                        documentation.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Tooltip</b></p>
                    <p>The tooltip, also known as infotip or hint, is a common graphical user
                        interface element in which, when hovering over a screen element or
                        component, a text box displays information about that element (such as a
                        description of a button’s function, or what an abbreviation stands for). The
                        tooltip is displayed continuously as long as the user hovers over the
                        element.</p>
                    <p>On desktop, it is used in conjunction with a cursor, usually a pointer,
                        whereby the tooltip appears when a user hovers the pointer over an item
                        without clicking it.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Wiki</b></p>
                    <p>Simple editing is one of the major benefits of using a wiki. Users can edit
                        pages without knowing HTML, and still use many formatting features of HTML.
                        Most wikis define a set of formatting rules to convert plain text into HTML.
                        Some wikis also allow some HTML “tags” within a page. (Some wikis use raw
                        HTML instead of special formatting rules.)</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Excel</b></p>
                    <p>Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet developed by Microsoft for Windows, macOS,
                        Android and iOS. It features calculation, graphing tools, pivot tables, and
                        a macro programming language called Visual Basic for Applications (VBA).
                        Excel forms part of the Microsoft Office suite of software.</p>
                    <p>Microsoft Excel has the basic features of all spreadsheets, using a grid of
                        cells arranged in numbered rows and letter-named columns to organize data
                        manipulations like arithmetic operations. It has a battery of supplied
                        functions to answer statistical, engineering, and financial needs. In
                        addition, it can display data as line graphs, histograms and charts, and
                        with a very limited three-dimensional graphical display. It allows
                        sectioning of data to view its dependencies on various factors for different
                        perspectives (using pivot tables and the scenario manager). A PivotTable is
                        a powerful tool that can save time when it comes to data analysis.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Graphical tools</b></p>
                    <p>Graphical tools can provide comprehensive and easily understandable ways to
                        present results of statistical analyses, particularly when a large amount of
                        data is involved.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>CAT tools</b></p>
                    <p>The “CAT” in CAT tool stands for “Computer Aided Translation” or “Computer
                        Assisted Translation” but, it doesn’t mean that a computer is actually
                        completing the translation for you. CAT tools are different than “machine
                        translation” – they assist a human translator in doing their work more
                        quickly and in managing their translation projects. CAT tools typically
                        contain a translation memory, which stores previous source and target
                        translations for easy reference while working. Term bases are also an
                        integral part of translation tools, giving translators the ability to
                        develop their own bilingual glossaries in their subject areas.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
