<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="differentiating_types_of_documents">
    <title>Types of documents</title>
    <shortdesc>All the technical documents can be divided into three main groups: Product
        documentation, Training materials, and Process documentation.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_c5m_scc_ppb">
            <title>Product documentation</title>
            <p>This category of technical communication deliverables deals with user assistance
                related to products, including installation, usage, maintenance, customization,
                etc.</p>
            <ol id="ol_elf_ycc_ppb">
                <li>
                    <p><b>User interface texts</b></p>
                    <p>UI strings, in-app copies, UX copies</p>
                    <p>User interface text appears on UI surfaces. This text includes control labels
                        and static text:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_t1t_4dc_ppb">
                        <li>Control labels identify controls and are placed directly on or next to
                            the controls.</li>
                        <li>Static text, which is so called because it is not part of an interactive
                            control, provides users with detailed instructions or explanations so
                            they can make informed decisions.</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Online help</b></p>
                    <p>Online help is a topic-based document delivered together with software or
                        operating systems. The document is designed to be displayed on the screen
                        for immediate assistance when using IT products.</p>
                    <p>The purpose of online help is to provide the user with quick assistance
                        directly from the application/module to which it refers.</p>
                    <p>Online help should consist of topics covering different aspects of a product
                        itself and its possible usage patterns. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>User guides</b></p>
                    <p>A user guide (or user manual) is a document designed to provide assistance
                        for a particular aspect of a product or solution.</p>
                    <p>A user guide may serve different purposes and explain the product from
                        different perspectives. Therefore, depending on usage context and identified
                        audience needs, many different types of guides can be created, like:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_omq_ffc_ppb">
                        <li><b>Administration guides</b> – for assisting users in system
                            management</li>
                        <li><b>How-to guides</b> – for guiding the users through a procedure to
                            achieve a specific goal</li>
                        <li><b>Implementation guides</b> – for explaining the procedure of enabling
                            a solution</li>
                        <li><b>Installation guides</b> – for guiding through product installation
                            process</li>
                        <li><b>Quick start guides</b> – for assisting in first-time use of a
                            product</li>
                        <li><b>Technical guides</b> – for covering low-level procedures</li>
                    </ul>
                    <p>Since a user guide is designed to be read as a whole, it typically has a
                        book-like structure and is divided into regular chapters supported by images
                        and diagrams. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Mobile apps help</b></p>
                    <p>This type of documentation is used in the case of software running on mobile
                        devices: smartphones, tablets, e-book readers, etc. </p>
                    <p>The purpose of mobile application help is to provide users with instant
                        assistance concerning the software they are using. This type of
                        documentation makes it possible to adapt the way content is presented to the
                        specific character of the user’s device, mainly with respect to screen size
                        and navigation possibilities.</p>
                    <p>Since this type of documentation is presented on specific devices, the
                        structure of the help should be adjusted to their limited field of view and
                        navigation options. In the case of smaller applications, the documentation
                        may be limited to only a couple of questions and answers or a single quick
                        start topic.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Knowledge base</b></p>
                    <p>A knowledge base is a web-based system for gathering information on a
                        specific subject, including frequently asked questions (FAQ), installation
                        procedures, quick start articles, usage instructions, etc. </p>
                    <p>The main purpose of this type of documentation is to gather all available
                        knowledge on a specific product in one place accessible for end users.</p>
                    <p>This type of documentation is very flexible in terms of structure, and can be
                        implemented according to the specific needs of the intended audience.
                        Depending on the needs, a knowledge base can be divided into different types
                        of content, like FAQs, articles, forums, tutorials.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Release notes</b></p>
                    <p>This type of documentation provides an overview of changes in a particular
                        version of a software product. It does not explain features in such detail
                        as other documentation types.</p>
                    <p>The purpose of the release notes document is to communicate changes
                        introduced in a specific version of the product to end users. The changes
                        may include feature additions and removals, as well as bug fixes and known
                        issues. </p>
                    <p>The structure of release notes is typically designed individually in each
                        organization depending on the requirements and the type of information to be
                        conveyed. The most popular structure consists of a short introduction
                        followed by a bulleted list of modifications and/or known issues, together
                        with the description of their impact on the product that each change
                        entails.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>API documentation</b></p>
                    <p>API documentation is a deliverable providing information on how to use and
                        interact with an application programming interface (API). It is a concise
                        guide to an API’s endpoints, their expected parameters and their data types,
                        as well as possible return values and ormats. API documentation also
                        frequently includes end-to-end tutorials and detailed example scenarios.</p>
                    <p>There are two key objectives of API documentation:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_ywd_bgc_ppb">
                        <li>To explain the functionality and business value of an API, along with
                            possible use cases</li>
                        <li>To provide a quick reference for those working with an API</li>
                    </ul>
                    <p>Since API documentation is primarily a source of reference information, it
                        needs to be easily searchable and is therefore web-based.</p>
                    <p>This type of documentation is typically produced from code, either completely
                        automatically or semi-automatically.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>AR/VR</b></p>
                    <p><b>Virtual reality (VR)</b> implies a complete immersion experience that
                        shuts out the physical world. Using VR devices, users can be transported
                        into a number of real-world and imagined environments.</p>
                    <p><b>Augmented reality (AR)</b> adds digital elements to a live view, often by
                        using the camera on a smartphone. It’s simpler than VR and doesn’t require
                        such complex software and hardware in most cases.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Chatbots</b></p>
                    <p>A chatbot is a software application used to conduct an on-line chat
                        conversation via text or text-to-speech, in lieu of providing direct contact
                        with a live human agent. A chatbot is a type of software that can automate
                        conversations and interact with people through messaging platforms. Designed
                        to convincingly simulate the way a human would behave as a conversational
                        partner, chatbot systems typically require continuous tuning and testing,
                        and many in production remain unable to adequately converse or pass the
                        industry standard Turing test.</p>
                    <p>Chatbots are used in dialog systems for various purposes including customer
                        service, request routing, or information gathering. While some chatbot
                        applications use extensive word-classification processes, natural language
                        processors, and sophisticated AI, others simply scan for general keywords
                        and generate responses using common phrases obtained from an associated
                        library or database.</p>
                    <p>Most chatbots are accessed on-line via website popups or through virtual
                        assistants. They can be classified into usage categories that include:
                        commerce (e-commerce via chat), education, entertainment, finance, health,
                        news, and productivity.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Infographics</b></p>
                    <p>Infographics (a clipped compound of “information” and “graphics”) are graphic
                        visual representations of information, data, or knowledge intended to
                        present information quickly and clearly. They can improve cognition by
                        utilizing graphics to enhance the human visual system’s ability to see
                        patterns and trends. Similar pursuits are information visualization, data
                        visualization, statistical graphics, information design, or information
                        architecture. Infographics have evolved in recent years to be for mass
                        communication, and thus are designed with fewer assumptions about the
                        readers’ knowledge base than other types of visualizations.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_gcm_tcc_ppb">
            <title>Training materials</title>
            <p>The technical communication deliverables included in this category are used for
                facilitating the learning process.</p>
            <ol id="ol_pr2_1dc_ppb">
                <li>
                    <p><b>Presentations</b></p>
                    <p>Presentations are training and/or informative materials displaying
                        information in the form of a slide show.</p>
                    <p>They are used as reference when conducting training sessions or when
                        presenting information on a particular subject. This type of materials helps
                        the trainer or presenter maintain a fixed structure of the session and helps
                        the attendees visualize, understand and memorize the information to be
                        learned.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Classroom trainings</b></p>
                    <p>Classroom training materials are created for teaching groups of users
                        gathered in one room.</p>
                    <p>They are designed to teach attendees how to use a product by explaining
                        theoretical aspects and conducting practical exercises with the supervision
                        of a trainer. This kind of training often offers live usage of a product,
                        which provides possibilities of serving both education and marketing
                        purposes.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>eLearnings</b></p>
                    <p>E-learning is a form of education via the Internet or from physical media. It
                        makes it possible to complete a course, training session, or even university
                        education without the need for physical presence in a classroom.</p>
                    <p>The purpose of e-learning is to provide the attendees with training
                        possibilities whenever classroom session is not possible or inconvenient to
                        be organized. This type of training also helps achieve better
                        cost-efficiency, since it does not require the organizers to involve
                        trainers, to book a venue or to ship environments. Moreover, e-learning is
                        designed to be the most accessible form of training – if the technological
                        requirements are met, it can be completed at any time and any place chosen
                        by the trainee.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Webinars</b></p>
                    <p>A webinar is an Internet seminar conducted with the use of a webcast
                        technology providing bi-directional communication between the trainer and
                        trainees.</p>
                    <p>Webinars are used for training purposes whenever a classroom session is not
                        possible and e-learning limitations make it difficult to explain a subject
                        in a sufficient manner. The interaction with a trainer possible in webinars
                        provides the attendees with the opportunity to clarify any doubts they might
                        have in reference to the subject of the training. This type of communication
                        is also commonly used for demo purposes, as well as for business
                        contacts.</p>
                    <p>This type of training may be provided in the form of an online lecture with
                        audio/video, often accompanied by a presentation. </p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_vzt_tcc_ppb">
            <title>Process documentation</title>
            <p>Project documentation is a deliverable required to be created and approved before
                work on a project can be started. Examples of such documentation include project
                proposals, requirement specifications, feasibility studies, business cases, etc.</p>
            <ol id="ol_ykv_bdc_ppb">
                <li>
                    <p><b>Project documentation</b></p>
                    <p>Project documentation is a deliverable required to be created and approved
                        before work on a project can be started. Examples of such documentation
                        include project proposals, requirement specifications, feasibility studies,
                        business cases, etc.</p>
                    <p>The purpose of the document is to identify the scope of work required to
                        complete a project, to explain why the project is necessary, and to propose
                        ways of accomplishing it.</p>
                    <p>Project documentation is similar to user guides and has a book-like
                        structure. The main sections that should be present in the document include
                        problem statement (motivation), objectives (what should be done), problem
                        solution (how to do it), and project management (who should do it and when
                        it should be done).</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Policies and procedures</b></p>
                    <p>This type of documentation refers to a set of rules, principles and
                        guidelines created or implemented by an organization in order to achieve its
                        goals.</p>
                    <p>Policies and procedures are created in order to systematize the way an
                        organization should be functioning. </p>
                    <p>This type of documentation may follow the structure of a short user guide.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Reports</b></p>
                    <p>A report is an analytical document written to provide data on a particular
                        subject to a specific audience.</p>
                    <p>Reports are most commonly requested by managers, business partners, existing
                        and prospective customers, etc.</p>
                    <p>The structure of this type of document depends primarily on the purpose and
                        target audience of the report. </p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
